We move on to the fourth part of our
video training “Events as a Project”
and we will start by talking about the
project characteristics of the event.
What brings the events closer to the project?
First, the event has a goal measurable
results, there is a limitation
in the time of the beginning and
end of the event and there
is a limitation of resources
that are spent to produce
events, resources not only
monetary, but, say,
human and other.
The event is separate from other plans.
We can describe an event as a separate
case, although it is undoubtedly
related to the company’s
overall communication strategy,
other promotions, direct
advertising, and so on.
But, nevertheless, and therefore, it is
a project that has its framework.
There is an organization that is created
under the project.
It is either a project group within
the company, but it is usually a
more complex social hierarchy that
includes representatives of the company
and contractors who are,
one way or another, involved
in the implementation of the event.
And contractors, in turn, have their
own organizational structure, for example,
the structure within the company,
some subcontractors with whom
they work, and so on.
This is a type of interaction
between the various participants
of the project.
We move on to the definition of the goal.
This is one of the systemic features
of the project.
A project should always have
a goal, unlike a basic activity
that is repeated at
some point.
If the purpose of the
event was formulated correctly,
it must meet several requirements.
First, it should be quite
specific, unflattering.
Second, the goal must be measurable.
Since the goal sets the
expected outcomes of the event, measurement
is necessary, otherwise we cannot
indicate what information
and other effect the Third
Party has, the goal must be
achievable.
It is not necessary to formulate
a too large, too global goal.
Such a goal can be formulated
in the company’s mission, because
the mission should inspire.
As for the development goals and the
purpose of the specific event,
it should be quite specific and local.
And there is a time
limit because an event
can push too many tasks
into the current
time frame.
What are the possible goals
that could be formulated?
On the one hand, it can be an increase
in brand recognition, this can be
calculated by means of
sociological surveys.
On the other hand, it is publicity,
receiving free publications in the mass
media, increasing sales, in this
case, both revenue and profit are considered.
Sales can be counted both at the
event itself and outside it, but here
you need to establish a correlation
between the marketing event and
sales outside.
Expanding contacts
may be another goal.
In this case, you mean contacting
first and foremost those who are
interested in consuming your services
or goods.
Training and education team can
be the goal of a special event,
if it is a corporate event,
but in the situation of involvement
of the consumer to the brand and
conducting free training seminars,
for example, there is experience
of conducting seminars on training
households to use microwaves,
in this case training and the
ability of the participant of
the educational seminar
to use this technique, this
product, is also one of the results.
The emotional reaction of participants
can also be recorded and measured,
which is also one of the
possible goals.
The task 10.
Assess the following formulation of
the purpose of the event according to the
above criteria.
Increase the loyalty of employees,
increase the productivity
of work, create a positive
emotional microclimate
in the team.
Assess this statement according
to the above criteria.
Recommended time for
the task is 7-10 minutes.
Check the results.
First, looking at this text, we understand
that the goal is not quite specific.
What is loyalty, how it is
measured in this case,
productivity, how it is measured,
and so on.
The goal can be measurable, but
it is rather weak because it is very
difficult to measure loyalty.
Productivity can be measured, but it
is difficult to establish a
correlation between the event
and the achieved production effect.
You can create a positive microclimate
in the team, but the time factor is
not taken into account here, because
one event to create a positive
microclimate is not enough.
Even if this was possible in some
short term, it is not a
fact that it will be possible to consolidate
the achieved effect in the future.
In this respect, the event is not self-sufficient.
I would like to give a good example from
the book of the German author Halzbaur.
He has four co-authors.
I will mention this book later.
The event was held, a tour sponsored
by the beer brand Becks.
In this case, the following
objectives were set.
Positive experiences for the audience.
It is about a concert, open air,
open sky, beer, which is carried
out in some branded appliances,
poured into branded glasses,
promotional products are
distributed, which
remains in the participants
of the event for memory.
Selling beer at concerts.
This is another goal that can be
measured by selling.
Distribution of advertising gifts.
Support through direct advertising and through
promotions at the sales venues.
The possibility of implementing
integrated marketing communications.
This is a good form of purpose.
In order to make it easier for you
to formulate the goal, I would like
to add an addition.
This is the recommendation I
heard from my colleague, from
the consultant Vladislav Trochenko.
He uses this triad “I want, I can,
I will.”
When we define the purpose
of an event, we must first
define what we principally want.
Our needs are limitless
and we want a lot.
Next we move to the stage of “we can” and
determine what we have resources.
And then it turns out that not
everything we would like to do
can be realised.
Then we limit the
original goal.
Then we move to the “I will”.
This is what you really
intend to do right now.
This is an activity that
you really want to implement
and are able to implement.
And then the goal is usually a
little more limited, because, no
matter how beautiful the project
is, there is not always the
organizational potential of the
company to implement it.
The task 11.
Formulate the goal of a hypothetical
corporate event using the above-
mentioned criteria for determining
the goal.
We move to the part called
“search for a contractor”.
The fact is that, as a rule, marketers,
and within our course we are
talking about marketing tasks,
do not engage in the
organization of special
events and delegate this to
a professional event manager.
We have already said that there are
differences between ivent management and ivent marketing.
And here the question arises
of finding a contractor
who could really implement successful
events of a certain type.
In order to choose the right contractor,
you need to know what stage of development
the Russian appliance
industry is at.
A little history of Russian business.
At the turn of the 1980s and 1990s, in
fact, there were no event companies in Russia.
There were individual activists
at the production,
directors-performers, freelance
artists who had the skills
and experience to organize
special events.
But, of course, at that time,
the organizer was more of a calling.
Many of them were not even
trained.
And so talking about the profession of
the ivent manager, especially about
the ivent companies, was not necessary.
Then the 90s went under the sign
of holiday companies, they
were called as usual.
And at the turn of the 1990s-2000s
this industry underwent sharp changes.
The fact is that in the Russian
business environment at the time
there were already
a lot of certified and professional
marketers, professional PR
specialists, professional personnel
management specialists.
And these people wanted the events that
the companies are implementing to be
tied to their business goals.
And at this point, on the one
hand, new companies began to appear,
which called themselves an ivent company.
On the other hand, the existing holiday
agencies have begun to rename themselves.
The name is usually the same, but
the introduction has changed.
For example, the company began
to be called not a holiday
agency, but an event agency, or
an event company, or an event
marketing agency, or an event
marketing agency, or a
special events agency, and
so on.
But, of course, the transformation
of holiday companies into
an ivent company was quite
difficult.
And so far this process continues.
And the company’s renaming often
served as a simple masking of the
old holiday agency under the new
patterns that were needed
in the new Russian business
environment.
But there was another trend
alongside this.
First, there were event
agencies that were led by
people who were leading in marketing.
Second, there was specialization
of ivent companies on
some tasks.
Thus, giant companies
emerged from holiday
agencies.
And small companies that specialize
in various areas of the
ivent business.
On the slide you can see the main types
of ivent companies listed.
This is a holiday agency,
they still exist.
But in terms of the tasks and
goals we consider as part of our
course, they are less interesting.
company full cycle.
This is a pretty interesting
type of company.
On the one hand, they have
the organizational base
to implement large-scale
events.
On the other hand, full-cycle
agencies are just those companies
to which smaller companies
delegate their tasks.
For example, not all companies have
a technical department, their own
sound equipment, their own
writers, designers, etc.
Full-cycle companies have this
orgressource.
But, unfortunately, according
to my observations, most
full-cycle event companies
are professional organizers.
Therefore, in order to maximize
their effectiveness, it is best
if they work in pair, in a team,
for example, with a peer agency
or with your marketing department,
which develops those concepts
that coordinate the
events of the brand.
There is a PIA agency.
Most of them offer the organization
of special events and
use in their presentation
materials the words event
marketing, event marketing,
special events, etc.
Unfortunately, the peer companies,
entering the promo segment, and sometimes
even in the sector of corporate
events, can really
organize only press events.
Therefore, we must emphasize that
press events should be entrusted
to public agencies, but not to entrust
them with other types of events
that they cannot effectively
organize.
It will be in any case.
In addition, there are full-
cycle advertising agencies
in the special events industry.
About advertising agencies, we
can say that, of course, there
are cases when such large
agencies organized, for
example, events on the team of education.
But that is not their profile.
Sometimes they organize press
events because sometimes there are
public relations departments in
these agencies, good public relations
workers who can do so.
And, as a rule, advertising
agencies of the full cycle
in the event component can make
high-quality product presentations
and btl-actions.
BTL agencies – I have already said that
this industry thinks of itself in such
an expansion of tasks, but, in principle,
BTL agencies are basically a presentation,
a sample, and they can be
entrusted.
Exhibition companies organize exhibitions
or provide services that
allow to showcase the effectiveness
of this part.
For example, they are engaged in
designing stands, providing some
post-materials and the like.
Undoubtedly, the services of these companies
must be resorted to if you want
to organize a professional exhibition.
Training and team training are
another industry that is somehow
related to event business.
Unfortunately, these agencies
are not always honest.
Of course, there are specialized
event companies that engage in team-
building, and they can be entrusted
with including corporate
events, because, as a rule,
they have this experience.
But those companies that
are positioned as training and
as an additional service offer
the organization of
corporate events are, as a rule,
companies that do not have
much organizational experience,
simply engaged in, say,
psychotrainings, they had experience
of holding team-
education events.
It’s not the same, say, with
a big corporate event on a stand
of more people.
Pay attention to the specialization
opportunities of various event companies.
Let us repeat again, holiday
companies are just holidays.
Full-cycle agencies can
organize mass events,
whether they have a production
base.
The peer agencies are better,
interacting with them,
to concentrate on holding a press
conference and presentation.
Full-cycle advertising agencies can
do well with promos and presentations,
and sometimes press
events, if there is a good
peer department.
BTL agencies are, in fact, the
classic BTL and work on exhibitions.
Exhibition companies can
only organize exhibitions.
Companies that engage
in team training can organize
training, intensives, sometimes
including with a trip,
say, abroad, hold
team training events
and corporate holidays.
The task 12.
Find a match between the tasks
of the event and the type of event agency.
Who can be trusted for what type
of event?
Check the results.
So we had two columns, and
we needed to find a match.
A holiday agency can successfully
conduct a festival, but it is better
that it works in pair, for example,
with a peer agency.
A holiday agency can perfectly
organize a New Year corporate,
especially if the task is
mainly holiday and relaxing.
and all.
A full-cycle event agency
can very well organize a
festival because it
is usually a mass event.
And in a number of cases, you can entrust
an event agency with a full cycle of
a New Year corporation, especially if
business tasks are not put forward, and
the tasks are purely organizational.
The PIA may hold a press conference
and in some cases a presentation
of products for a small
number of participants.
BTL agency will present products in
a pre-set manner, and from this list,
as a rule, everyone, but there are
agencies that have experience
in holding festivals, they can
be trusted.
A company that specializes in training
and team training, in a number
of cases can hold a New Year
corporate event, if it is not
a purely training company,
but an event company specializing
in team training events.
Usually in the package they
have some experience, some projects
that are related to New Year's
and other corporate events.
When looking for a contractor, you should take
into account the quality and composition
of the projects.
This is usually stated on the company’s website.
In this case, it is usually better
not to pay attention to customer sheets.
I monitored the customer lists
of the leading Moscow event
companies and found that they
very often match a fairly
large number of percentages.
What does it have to do with?
First, a customer often leaves
one event company to another.
The specialization in the market
is not so great, so in the positioning
of the event company very often
there is no unique offer that makes
the customer stay with them.
They often change contractors.
On the other hand, in the customer
list may be former customers.
In this regard, cooperation with
a well-known company, with a well-known
brand is not an advantage if it ended
in conflict and the departure of
the customer.
Finally, some large companies,
holding, say, corporate types
simply divide their tasks on
organizing special events into
several parts and, regardless
of specialization, give
it to different event agencies.
The second thing to pay attention
to when looking for a contractor
is the first contact.
If you contacted an
event agency, for example,
sent them a briefing
or a formulated tender for
an event and you are contacted
in a week or more, it means that
the contractor simply doesn’
t need you.
This agency, which will
really deal with your project,
is really interested in it,
but at the same time, of course,
this agency should have experience
in implementing such projects.
The third thing to pay attention
to is the system of questions in the brief.
This is often the case during
the first negotiations.
If the contractor's company
is only interested in, say, the event
budget, your some general wishes,
and this conversation ends, it
means that it simply doesn't make
sense to cooperate with the company,
because event business professionals
should be interested in what
the purpose of the event is marketing,
what the purpose of the event
in terms of human resources
management, if it is a
HR event and so on and so on.
In the extreme case, if it is a matter
of professional organizers, not knowing
other business technologies,
the representatives of the contractor
company should be interested
in something regarding the logistics
of the event, the scale of the audience,
the place of the event,
that is, what concerns
the organization.
If there are no questions in the briefing of
this system, if the briefing is very short
and simply implies indicating the type and
budget of the event, it means that you decide
on the question to whom you will make
a gift in the form of this budget,
rather than solving your own business-
sized tasks.
Well, strangely enough, you need
to pay attention to the reviews
of familiar managers, but not just good
reviews you should be interested
in, but reviews that are related
to the implementation of successful
projects on the type of events, contractor
you are looking for.
Why announce a tender?
The question is quite naive, but at
the same time it is ambiguous.
But on the one hand, competition is the
engine of progress.
If companies start to fight for your order,
then at the start of the relationship
they will perceive it differently
if the order is received.
If the order was obtained without
much effort, then the attitude to you
will be this.
Professional negotiators recommend
that you first say no, first
create some obstacle
in the discussion,
and then agree.
Then the opposite side of the
negotiations will seek to come
to some kind of compromise, so
that cooperation will still take place.
In the case of the tender announcement,
this rule also works.
The second important point
that makes us announce the
tender is that companies participating
in it offer a fairly large
number of special event
concepts, and you
can consider more creative
ideas.
But here I have to warn you that
many companies, getting an
interesting creative idea,
take it and go with it to another
contractor.
There are black lists among agencies
that are regularly replenished,
there are ways of cooperating with
representatives of the event
business, and therefore,
probably, you should not
still strike your reputation
with such tricks.
Therefore, if the company has offered
a creative idea, and you want to
implement it, then you need
to implement it with the same company,
in order not to risk reputation.
There are shortcomings associated
with the tender announcement.
It is very difficult to organize
a fair competition.
But in the early 2000s, representatives
of the event business, the leaders
of this direction, generally said
that the tender is not necessary
to organize.
This was the position of the
major inventory companies, and they thought
that why, if we are market leaders,
let them turn to us.
It was an attempt to counter
the competitors in the face of smaller
companies, which segmentally cut
off the target audiences of large inventory
companies, creating additional
specialization options.
That is why large companies
have sought to retain their
customers.
Now the situation is a little different,
because the tender and tender announcement
were realized as a fact of the reality
of business.
And so the same Ivent
companies have revised their position.
Today, they are very often
at special events, the
event industry, at various
conferences, seminars, talk
about the need to develop
rules that allow for fair
tenders.
Naturally, you know that there is a problem
with the outlets that are associated with
the search for contractors.
This problem is quite serious.
But, in large part, the presence or
absence of outlets when transferring
the project to the contractor depends
on the company’s corporate culture,
and whether the company’
s top management allows
employees to behave in this way.
Another disadvantage of the
tender is that it includes
companies that are obviously not
suitable for the customer.
This may be a disadvantage,
or may not be, because
indeed in the situation of an
open tender the company
manager spends a lot of time
analyzing the sent offers, including
from the company, which
obviously do not interest
you as contractors.
On the other hand, the tender can
be announced between those companies to
which the request was sent, and in
this respect it is not absolutely open.
And,, it is some compromise
between ordering an instantly
established company and
announcing a competition.
There are resources for tender announcement.
Some are networked, some
are not.
So, say, Event True is actually
an offline, printed edition,
and is distributed
on a subscription.
The magazine has a website of the
same name, and the managers of
the magazine, its editor Andrei
Shishenin, have long been supporting
fair tenders and trying to
formulate some conventional
rules within the Event Industry
that allow fair participation
in the tender.
And,, this company can be addressed
in the question of finding potential
contractors.
On the other hand, there is the EventMarket.
ru portal, this is the oldest portal
in our industry, which has the option
of announcing a tender.
As a rule, this option is empty, and
this also allows you to draw conclusions
about the effectiveness
of this tool at the moment.
There is a resource EventForum.ru, and
its founders can also be contacted on
the issue of announcing a tender.
And finally, there is the EventMarket community.
Despite the coincidence of the name, it
is not controlled by those people who
founded the EventMarket.ru portal, but it
is also an interesting resource
that allows you to attract Venture's
attention.
What I must warn you
about is that all the resources
that are aimed at creating information
materials or coordinating interactions
within the Iveco industry
are all one way or another
controlled by some
Iveco company.
In this regard, if you turn to a resource,
it positions itself as
independent, but by announcing
a tender through it, the resource
is affiliated with a major event
agency, you involuntarily
fall into its hands.
In fact, it is easier to find
out who a site, a community is
affiliated with and directly
contact its founders.
On the other hand, there are
some moves here, and I think that
despite the fact that Event.ru is
not a completely independent
publication, it is the magazine,
the founders of which can be
contacted on the issue of
announcing a tender and get
a more or less adequate independent result.
Next we move to another aspect
of the event, as a variant of
the project activity, it is
to measure the results of the special event.
It must be said that the results
of its measurement depend on the aim.
We talked about what goals can
be adequate, and now we have
to name how the variants
of calculating the results of
the event correspond
to the target.
For example, the increase in brand
recognition can be measured by
conducting some sociological
surveys, appealing to statistics.
Publicity, free publications, can
be measured both quantitatively
and qualitatively.
The quantitative factor is interesting
in terms of the information
effect of the event, but qualitative
analysis is necessary to determine
the context of brand mention,
how well the brand story was dealt
with in a particular
article, in a particular material.
Whether the material or just the information
partners of your industry have
published a press release of the
events virtually without changing
it, it can all be analyzed.
In addition, publicity can
be determined not only through print,
media and television.
You can also analyze the welfare.
And the mention of blogs, the context
of these mentions, the presence
or absence of photo and video materials
can also be a laxmush paper of
the effectiveness of the event.
Another criterion is
the sales.
If you sold your product as
part of the event, then it can
be about calculating revenue and profit.
In this case, it is purely
monetary calculations.
Another criterion is the increase
in the number of contacts received
as a result of the event.
I will give an example.
A representative of your company
participated in a conference
part of a large exhibition.
He got a number of cards.
We can count how many of these new
contacts, these new contacts, were.
We can distinguish from this total
number of new contact persons
the number of customers
who can actually interact with
your company, afford your
services or purchase your goods.
We can count the total
number of contacts worked out
that turned into real orders
or real purchases.
In principle, there is a certain
difficulty here, because the speaker
can work very well and get a
large number of new
contacts.
But in the process of further
work, say, after the event,
the work may be carried out incorrectly,
the relationship with a
potential customer may
be incorrectly built,
the sales process may be
incorrectly broken.
And in this case, the initial
good effect may absolutely
not affect the actual sales.
The next direction of measuring
the results of the event can
be team training.
In a learning situation, we can measure
the skills and knowledge acquired.
In the situation of team training
events, we measure what new role
positions have emerged in the team,
how the strengths have changed,
how the leadership strategies
of certain employees have
changed, and so on.
We can also measure the
emotional response of participants,
and it can be measured both post-
facto by analyzing the
feedback received about the event,
and by observing the participant
during the event.
This is also an interesting material
for analysis.
In conclusion, let’s look
at what we learned and what
we learned in the process
of our video training.
We learned what is event marketing,
as a technology for brand promotion,
what are the ways to create
creative concepts of events.
Learn what determines the success
of individual types of events, why an
event is a project, how to look for
the right contractors and how
determines the degree of effectiveness of the event.
We have learned to create creative concepts
of events, using different technologies
of creativity, to align the creative
concept with the brand platform, to define
the types and ways of the company
participating in events of different
types, to choose the right contractors,
to formulate the optimal goals of
the event, to find criteria for
measuring the effectiveness of events.
In conclusion, I would like
to recommend literature that
can expand your understanding
of the technologies of e-commerce.
This is my book “Marketing.
Guide for employers and executives.
The book was released in 2006 and
is now preparing my new work "101
cases on event marketing.
The Russian experience.”
The book of my colleague Alexander
Shumovich “A magnificent event.
Technology and practice of ivent management.
It is also greatly written and it
can be interesting as a
complement to our course.
We talked mainly about
the marketing tasks of the event,
and Alexander is specialized
in the organizational
component.
There is also a remarkable book
by German authors Halzbauer and his
four co-authors, “Event Management”,
which was published in 2007
in the edition of “Exma”.
This book is truly monumental,
it is not by chance that it
was written by such a large group,
and in it you can find very useful
information on both the organizational
side of special events and
their marketing component.
The book of Alexander Pasmurov "How
to effectively prepare and conduct
a conference, seminar, exhibition"
may also be useful for you.
The author does not really write
about all events, but mainly about
what is called business events,
and has considerable experience in
organizing special events
of the business sector.
The book contains many
recommendations for both the
organizational plan and
the communication support
of special events.
I also recommend you read
the book by Bernd Schmidt
and his co-authors “Business in TV.
Marketing of Impressions Culture.
He is one of those authors who
promotes the concept of entertainment marketing.
He used the term empirical
marketing.
The book contains several extensive
cases from the field of event
marketing and very well motivates
those who want to adjust
their minds to the wave of creativity
and create truly interesting
and surprising events.
Among the Internet sources I recommend
the site of the offline edition Event.ru.
It will give you instructions on
how to subscribe to this edition
and receive it by mail.
And also the oldest industry
portal eventmarket.ru, which
is constantly updated and contains
a lot of useful information for
those interested in the industry
of special events.
Our video training is over.
Good events to you!